welcome to the man of recaps this is the
flash season three
at the end of season two barry allen ran
back to the past to save his mother from
being killed by the reverse flash
and it worked now in the present both of
his parents are alive and well great
success
but the world's different in some other
ways barry allen never became the flash
here it's actually wally west who got
flash powers going by kid flash the star
labs team doesn't exist in fact cisco's
the billionaire ceo of his own tech
company the biggest change though
without his mother's death barry never
went to live with the west so he never
met iris he has to orchestrate to meet
cute so they can start dating but as
that's happening he's starting to lose
memories of his previous life he goes to
see the reverse flash eobardon who's got
locked in a cage and he names his
alternate timeline flashpoint he's like
yeah kid time travel is messy pretty
soon you'll forget your old life
entirely and you'll lose your power so
barry has no choice but to run him back
to the past
and let him kill his mom so back in the
real present day everything's normal
again except
is it though cisco's brother just died
and he blames barry for it plus iris and
her father joe west are super mad at
each other barry's like this timeline
sucks too let me try again but this time
someone stops him it's jay garrick the
flash of earth 3. he breaks down time
travel for barry it's like hey if you
change something but then try to change
it back
it's never quite the same it's always a
little different and so barry has to
accept things are stuck the way they are
now in this post flashpoint timeline
this sucks for cisco whose brother's
dead now but pretty soon life goes back
to normal as iris and joe make up in
fact barry and iris have their actual
first kiss this time it's number three
for him but the others got erased and
from here on out barry and iris are
dating for real
but some of the people who are met at
human villains in the flashpoint
timeline are having memories of that
alternate life they're being summoned by
this creepy cult display doctor guy who
calls himself
alchemy and can somehow give them their
flashpoint powers and so per usual
there's a whole series of one-off
villains of the week one day earth 2
harrison wells comes for a visit with
his daughter jessie who's now a
speedster
yes remember she and wally were hit by
that dark matter last season she's got
speedster powers now but wally still
doesn't anyway she trains with the flash
and goes by the superhero name jessie
quick
pretty soon though her and her dad are
going home to earth too but he doesn't
want to leave team flash without
harrison wells so they hold auditions
from the whole multiverse of wells some
of whom look hilarious
they find one though who seems like a
great fit so cisco vibes him on over and
h.r wells joins the team
harry was a very grumpy wells but h.r is
extremely friendly real nice guy he's a
great talker but pretty soon it becomes
a parent he has no idea about any of
this science stuff yes he runs star labs
over on his earth but he's no scientist
he's more the ideas guy was i a con man
when i showed him how to fashion a rope
using carbon fiber i came up with those
ideas you were prompted by my
suggestions
so as usual he and cisco buttheads at
first but by the end they become best
friends one day while the west starts
having memories of when he was kid flash
over in flashpoint he goes to see
alchemy but let the cops there to catch
him turns out alchemy was just the hype
man the real big bad is a speedster with
white lightning oh he's a crazy robot
transformer guy
yes he calls himself savitar the god of
speed
as usual with a new speedster villain
he's way faster than barry but can't
just kill him right now for complicated
supervillain reasons by the way while he
couldn't resist he touches alchemy's
philosopher's stone and boom
while he's got speedster powers
officially joins team flash as kid flash
in fact team flash has a bunch of
superheroes because in this timeline
cisco's mastered his vibe powers
and caitlyn has the ice powers of earth
2 doppelganger killer frost it seems
like a split personality thing sometimes
killer frost takes over and goes full
supervillain but mostly the team's able
to talk her down another change from
flashpoint is that barry has a partner
at the csi lab
it's julian albert a meta human
specialist who does not get along with
barry and yes that is draco malfoy
eventually the flash takes alchemy down
and turns out to alchemy is julian he's
not evil though he has no memory of it
turns out he found that philosopher's
stone and oh it possessed him yes if you
open the box sabotar could show up so
let's keep that thing closed like lord
of the rings they can't just destroy
this thing so they decide to hide it
inside the speed force but that
temporarily blasts barry a few months
into the future where he sees himself
facing off with savitar
who has iris and no he kills her so now
the main goal is to alter that future
and save iris's life but in the meantime
romance blooms between our new
speedsters jesse and wally julian joins
the team has a flirtation with caitlyn
snow and papa joe west has a new
girlfriend district attorney cecile
horton barry and iris put their
relationship on super speed they move in
together then he proposes but they have
a big fight but then there's a musical
episode with supergirl then he proposes
again while singing the best romance
though is between cisco and
gypsy an interdimensional bounty hunter
yeah she's got vibe powers too
here to collect on hr cisco defeats her
though in a trial by combat and gets a
long distance girlfriend out of it and
of course you can't have a season of
flash without gorilla grodd
last season they sent him to the earth 2
gorilla city now he tricks barry into
fighting his gorilla rival so grog can
be king and leave an army of gorillas on
central city they vibe in the old gurley
king though who manages to defeat grodd
until next season now back to savitar
there's one piece of the philosopher's
stone they missed so sabotage is able to
hallucinate wally he tricks him into
throwing that last piece into the speed
force but turns out oh
that sucks wally into it and lets
sabotar out yes this was all part of his
master plan he's finally free but for
complicated supervillain reasons can't
just kill the flash right now so barry
goes into the speed force to rescue
wally from speed force prison it turns
out you can't leave it empty a speed
stress to stay behind so it's jay
garrick who takes one for the team
meanwhile killer frost has taken over
caitlyn again and after joining team
savitar
she comes out with full super villain
outfit all right she and cisco face off
about a dozen times he's always like
caitlyn i know you're in there and she's
always like no i'm not
now when they turned julian into a ouija
board savitar told him that flash
defeated him in the future so barry
travels to the future to find out how
they beat him but future barry allen has
grown out long emo hair he's super sad
since iris's death he finally tells
barry how he created the speed force
prison for him with the help of this
scientist who in the present is just a
grad student they get the scientists to
build the speed force bazooka yeah she
and hr have a real connection they have
a romance
also she figures out savitar's not a
robot he's a man in a suit and pretty
soon barry allen finds out who's inside
it is himself yes future evil barry
allen turns out he's actually a time
remnant remember like the one berry
created to help him defeat zoom that one
conveniently sacrificed himself in the
process so they never had to answer the
tough question what happens if you've
got to barry allen's turns out this guy
is a time remnant berry created to help
him fight savitar but when he survived
everyone shunned him because it was
weird and now he became savitar
cisco goes to the time travel
explanation board to try to explain it
but it's still super confusing and so
finally the day has come savitar
captures iris but this time barry's got
the speed force bazooka
oh gonna trap him but no it doesn't work
that was a waste
and so here we are we failed to change
anything and oh iris is killed
no but wait what's this that's not iris
it is h.r
wells yes earlier he sneakily disguised
himself as iris didn't tell barry so
savitar wouldn't know and so h.r wells
the fraud and the coward turned out to
be a hero when he sacrificed himself to
save the future so savitar's time loop
is broken but he's got a plan b to
repurpose the speed force bazooka
to blast him into it and make him like a
real god but what's this it doesn't work
in fact boom jay garrick's back
yeah cisco did a science thing he
sabotaged it and so it's the final
showdown while the speedsters all run
around cisco and killer frost having
their final battle in the end he defeats
her but once again no i know caitlyn's
still in there i'm not gonna kill you
and so when savatar grabs i'm gonna kill
cisco
oh blasted with frost power yeah caitlyn
was still in there in the end though
good barry allen oh
phases into the savitar suit kicks the
other one out he blasts that thing apart
like yo man you're done
savatar goes for a final sneak attack
but oh shot by iris west and evil
berries erased from the timeline caitlyn
decides not to take the killer frost
cure they made she's like hey killer
frost's part of me we gotta work things
out and now the day
is saved or is it cause there's a crazy
lightning storm going on yes with the
speed force prison unoccupied it's
unstable going to destroy the multiverse
and this time it is barry's turn fair
and square so the speed force opens up
in the form of barry's mom like hey come
on son let's do it so barry says his
goodbyes he thinks he's going away
forever and he walks into the speed
force
that's how season three of the flash
comes to an end
if you like this recap hit that
subscribe button for more of the best
recaps of tv
and movies and if you love this recap
check out the join button and support
the channel as a member